# NOSAv2
Matura Thesis of Mikkel Lüscher, G22K, 2025. <br/>
The thesis paper and all mentioned code can be found in this repository.<br/>
To ensure NOSAv2 works install all required python libraries. This can be done by using the following command in the console: pip install -r NOSAv2_requirements.txt (The file is in the NOSAv2 Folder)<br/><br/>
**Abstract**<br/><br/>
This Matura thesis addresses the need for improved diagnostic tools in brain tumor segmentation, which is a manual and time-consuming process subject to inter-observer variability. This thesis reviews existing approaches, evaluates the feasibility of artificial intelligence (AI)-driven diagnostic tools, and adapts a U-Net architecture for segmenting brain tumors in 2-dimensional MRI slices. This thesis offers a detailed theoretical introduction to magnetic resonance imaging, brain tumors, and most importantly image segmentation using AI. The thesis discusses the methods for developing the proposed AI model, a methodical review of state-of-the-art models, and a systematic comparison of the proposed model and state-of-the-art models.<br/>
The proposed AI model, used in Neuro Oncology Segmentation Algorithm (NOSA)v2 employs an adapted U-Net trained on 3064 T1-weighted contrast enhanced MRI images. The model was trained using a combined dice and dice loss function and an Adam optimizer. The model used in NOSAv2 features a user friendly graphical user interface (GUI) to facilitate practical implementation. The results show that NOSAv2 significantly improves recall at the price of precision, achieving a mean accuracy comparable to that of the state-of-the-art models. However, NOSAv2 shows a notable deficit in intersection over union (IoU) due to architectural simplifications, driven by computational restraints. Although, the product does not reach a clinical standard, it lays a solid foundation for further development.<br/>
The thesis further discusses the current and future use of AI-driven tools in radiology through an interview with a neuroradiologist. The interview confirmed the value of AI-driven tools, but only as an augmentation to human expertise.
